{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Microsoft YaHei;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f8\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f9\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s1\sbasedon0\snext1\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs40 Heading 1;}
{\s2\sbasedon0\snext2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32 Heading 2;}
{\s3\sbasedon0\snext3\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32 Heading 3;}
{\s4\sbasedon0\snext4\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Heading 4;}
{\s5\sbasedon0\snext5\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Heading 5;}
{\s6\sbasedon0\snext6\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Heading 6;}
{\*\cs15\snext15 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs16\snext16\super endnote reference;}
{\*\cs17\snext17 Endnote Characters;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext19\qj\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\sl288\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Text Body;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\ql\widctlpar\tx566\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi-283\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 List;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\qj\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\noline\ltrpar\i\dbch\af7\dbch\af8\afs24\ai\loch\f0\fs24 Caption;}
{\s22\sbasedon0\snext22\qj\widctlpar\noline\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af8\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Index;}
{\s23\sbasedon0\snext23\qc\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs40 Part;}
{\s24\sbasedon0\snext24\qr\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 rightpar;}
{\s25\sbasedon0\snext25\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 centerpar;}
{\s26\sbasedon0\snext26\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 equation;}
{\s27\sbasedon0\snext27\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 equationNum;}
{\s28\sbasedon0\snext28\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 equationAlign;}
{\s29\sbasedon0\snext29\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 equationAlignNum;}
{\s30\sbasedon0\snext30\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 equationArray;}
{\s31\sbasedon0\snext31\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 equationArrayNum;}
{\s32\sbasedon0\snext32\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 theorem;}
{\s33\sbasedon0\snext33\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 bitmapCenter;}
{\s34\sbasedon0\snext34\qc\widctlpar\sb240\sa240\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs36 Title;}
{\s35\sbasedon0\snext35\qc\widctlpar\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 author;}
{\s36\sbasedon0\snext36\ql\widctlpar\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Footer;}
{\s37\sbasedon0\snext37\ql\widctlpar\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Header;}
{\s38\sbasedon0\snext38\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 caption;}
{\s39\sbasedon0\snext39\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Figure;}
{\s40\sbasedon0\snext40\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Table;}
{\s41\sbasedon0\snext41\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Tabular;}
{\s42\sbasedon0\snext42\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Tabbing;}
{\s43\sbasedon0\snext43\qj\widctlpar\li1024\ri1024\lin1024\rin1024\fi340\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 Quote;}
{\s44\snext44\ql\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 verbatim;}
{\s45\sbasedon0\snext45\ql\widctlpar\tx566\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi-283\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 List 1;}
{\s46\sbasedon0\snext46\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 latex picture;}
{\s47\sbasedon0\snext47\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 subfigure;}
{\s48\sbasedon0\snext48\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32 bibheading;}
{\s49\sbasedon0\snext49\ql\widctlpar\li567\ri0\lin567\rin0\fi-567\sb0\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 bibitem;}
{\s50\sbasedon0\snext50\ql\widctlpar\tx566\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi-283\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 endnotes;}
{\s51\sbasedon0\snext51\ql\widctlpar\li397\ri0\lin397\rin0\fi-113\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 footnote text;}
{\s52\sbasedon0\snext52\qj\widctlpar\li454\ri0\lin454\rin0\fi-170\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 endnote text;}
{\s53\sbasedon0\snext53\ql\widctlpar\sb60\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 acronym;}
{\s54\sbasedon0\snext54\qc\widctlpar\sb0\sa120\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 abstract title;}
{\s55\sbasedon0\snext55\qj\widctlpar\li1024\ri1024\lin1024\rin1024\fi340\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 abstract;}
{\s56\sbasedon0\snext56\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20 contents_heading;}
{\s57\sbasedon0\snext57\ql\widctlpar\tldot\tqr\tx8647\li425\ri0\lin425\rin0\fi0\sb240\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Contents 1;}
{\s58\sbasedon0\snext58\ql\widctlpar\tldot\tqr\tx8734\li512\ri0\lin512\rin0\fi0\sb60\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Contents 2;}
{\s59\sbasedon0\snext59\ql\widctlpar\tldot\tqr\tx9246\li1024\ri0\lin1024\rin0\fi0\sb60\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Contents 3;}
{\s60\sbasedon0\snext60\ql\widctlpar\tldot\tqr\tx9758\li1536\ri0\lin1536\rin0\fi0\sb60\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Contents 4;}
{\s61\sbasedon0\snext61\ql\widctlpar\tldot\tqr\tx10270\li2048\ri0\lin2048\rin0\fi0\sb60\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Contents 5;}
{\s62\sbasedon0\snext62\ql\widctlpar\tldot\tqr\tx10782\li2560\ri0\lin2560\rin0\fi0\sb60\sa60\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Contents 6;}
{\s63\sbasedon0\snext63\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24 Quotations;}
{\s64\sbasedon18\snext64\qj\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\dbch\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Subtitle;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/4.4.5.2$Windows_x86 LibreOffice_project/a22f674fd25a3b6f45bdebf25400ed2adff0ff99}{\info{\title Original file was thesis.tex}{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.8 r1240 (released June 16 2014) on Wed Nov 11 13:44:20 2015}{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2015\mo11\dy11\hr13\min48}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}\deftab720\deftab720
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12280\pghsxn15900\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1760\footery720{\footer\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\qc{\rtlch \ltrch\fs24
{\field{\*\fldinst  PAGE }{\fldrslt 16}}}
\par }\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}
{\pgdsc1\pgdscuse451\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt1 Endnote;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15900\paperw12280\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb720\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12280\pghsxn15900\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1760\footery720{\footer\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\qc{\rtlch \ltrch\fs24
{\field{\*\fldinst  PAGE }{\fldrslt 16}}}
\par }\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnar
{\*\ftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\sb86\sa0\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\pagebb\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
Chapter 1}
\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs40\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Introduction}
\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs40\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\pagebb\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1  Mitochondrial structure}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Since their discovery in the mid 19th century, mitochondria have been one of the most studied organelles in the cell. The name mitochondria belies the morphological description of these organelles: they have a granular appearance, hence the word \u8217\'92chondros\u8217\'92 in Greek and resemble threads, hence the word \u8217\'92mitos\u8217\'92 in Greek Zick et\~al. (2009). It is thus appropriate to begin with an overview of the structural features of this ancient organelle whose study has led to some of the most fundamental understanding of basic biology since its discovery.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The organelle has a tube like cross section with a width on the order of \~0.5-1 microns and a total length ranging from the order of \~10-1000 microns, depending on the cell and organism. Mitochondria are believed to have a bacterial origin Gray et\~al. (1999). The remnants of the bacterial genome found in mitochondria are known as mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Only about 1% of mitochondrial proteins are encoded by the mtDNA. The rest are encoded by the nuclear genome, synthesized in the cytosol and imported into mitochondria via membrane bound translocases. The proteins that are encoded by mtDNA are mainly involved in cellular respiration, in particular those involved in the transfer of electrons and the generation of ATP Mishra and Chan (2014). }
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mitochondria consist of two membranes; an inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) which is impermeable to most ions and metabolites enveloping a matrix compartment and an outer membrane (OM) that is freely diffusible to most molecules below 5000 Dalton. Within the IMM two distinct domains exist, and inner boundary membrane (IBM) and the cristae membrane. The IBM closely parallels the outer membrane while the cristae forms invaginations of the inner membrane into the matrix space. The cristae membrane possess a distinct substructure known as cristae junctions. These are narrow ring like structures that are believed to subcompartmentalize the inner membrane into the cristae membrane domain and the inner boundary membrane domain Mannella et\~al. (2001). Collectively the various membranes and substructures at this scale are known as the ultrastructure of the mitochondria. The inner membrane has an extremely high protein to lipid ratio (75:25) compared to other biological membranes. The reason for this becomes obvious when one realizes that it contains various protein complexes which are involved in oxidative phosphorylation, metabolite exchange, iron-sulfur biogenesis Veatch et\~al. (2009), protein lipid synthesis Osman et\~al. (2011), import of nuclear encoded proteins required in biogenesis Schmidt et\~al. (2010) and remodeling of the network as well as apoptotic Tait and Green (2010) signaling factors. We detail the various functions that involve mitochondria ultrastructure components and beyond in the next section. }
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2  Mitochondrial function}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The most well known role of mitochondria as energy production centers of the cell was elucidated by the pioneering work into the respiratory chain, oxidative phosphorylation process (OXPHOS) and chemiosmotic theory in the 50\u8217\'92s and 60\u8217\'92s Chance and Williams (1955); Mitchell (1961). Their role in cellular energy production begins with the oxidation of the small molecule pyruvate, fatty acids and amino acids via the citric acid cycle (TCA) and \u946\'3f oxidation, both of which take place in the matrix space of mitochondria. The reducing agents (NADH and FADH}{{\*\updnprop10000}\dn12\rtlch \ltrch\loch
2}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
) generated from the oxidation of these molecules are reoxidized by donating their electrons to the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) and ultimately reduce oxygen to water. The ETC is concentrated in the cristae membrane domain. The ETC consists of a series of increasingly electronegative enzyme complexes, and the transfer of electrons through these complexes releases energy that is used to translocate protons from the matrix to the intermembrane space (IMS), generating a proton gradient, known as the proton motive force (PMF). The PMF is used by the F1-F0 ATP synthase (complex V) to generate adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the matrix, which is subsequently transported via an antiporter to the cytosol to power cellular processes. The PMF consists of an electric potential (\u916\'3f\u936\'3f) and a chemical potential (pH). Inhibition of respiratory chain complexes results in a decrease of \u916\'3f\u936\'3f Benard and Rossignol (2008).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\u916\'3f\u936\'3f is an important measure of the functional state of mitochondria. In addition to its role in providing the necessary electrochemical gradient for ATP synthesis, \u916\'3f\u936\'3f is necessary for the non-bioenergetic related roles that mitochondria are involved in. For example the import of the vast majority of nuclear encoded proteins which are synthesized in the cytosol and translocated into the matrix are known to be dependent on \u916\'3f\u936\'3f Schmidt et\~al. (2010); Wiedemann et\~al. (2004). \u916\'3f\u936\'3f also plays a role during remodeling of the mitochondrial network in a process known as mitochondrial dynamics. In addition we have already mentioned that mitochondria are also involved in lipid and iron-sulfur synthesis, cell signaling and apoptosis. These non-bioenergetic related processes, together with those involved in oxidative phosphorylation require changes to the morphology of the organelle at the ultrastructure and larger scales in order to ensure an optimum level of metabolite flux between the various compartments in the cell.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3  The link between structure and function in mitochondrial remodeling}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mitochondria provide an illustrative example of how changes to the structure of the organelle are coordinated with the functional state of the cell. When respiration requirements are high, the cristae in mitochondria exhibit a \u8217\'92condensed\u8217\'92 state where the matrix volume is reduced and the cristae volume is enlarged. In contrast, when respiration requirements are low, the matrix space expands and cristae display small volumes (\u8217\'92orthodox state\u8217\'92) Hackenbrock (1968). It is believed that these changes are to facilitate an optimal diffusion of metabolites during oxidative phosphorylation. In addition to changes that are related to the bioenergetic needs of the cell, mitochondria exhibit structural changes due to apoptotic signaling and biogenesis. During apoptosis, the apoptotic factor cytochrome c is released from the inner cristae compartment into the cytosol Bernardi and Azzone (1981). This involves the opening of the cristae junctions via destabilization of OPA1, which is a protein that tethers the cristae junction. The shape of the cristae junction structure is also theorized to form a \u8217\'92valve\u8217\'92 that funnels inward flow of respiratory complexes while inhibiting back diffusion of these complexes back out into the inner boundary membrane, resulting in an enrichment of these complexes in the intra cristae membrane volume Frey et\~al. (2002).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The reversible nature of cristae remodeling in response to changes in cellular needs require fission and fusion of the mitochondria Mannella et\~al. (2001). Early bioenergetic studies were most often done on isolated mitochondria, hence dynamic changes to the network structure and their importance to the proper functioning of the mitochondrial unit were not appreciated until relatively recently. Since the turn of the century, several important studies have demonstrated in vivo that mitochondrial networks undergo reversible and dynamic changes in response to different energy substrates, providing evidence that mitochondrial structure is intimately linked to its functional state Amchenkova et\~al. (1988)-Rossignol et\~al. (2004). Mitochondrial networks in yeast display an increased volume density as a proportion of the total cell volume when grown in non-fermentable carbon sources Stevens (1981). Mitochondria in mammalian cells display a hyperfused state when they are exposed to stress factors such as starvation Tondera et\~al. (2009). In addition to been necessary for reversible cristae remodeling, a crucial role for mitochondrial dynamics is posited by the mitochondrial quality control model. In this model, overall mitochondrial quality is maintained by continual fission and selective fusion of tubules within the network Twig et\~al. (2008). In this mechanism segments of mitochondrial tubules are separated (undergo fission) from the network and selectively fuse back to the network according to a threshold level of \u916\'3f\u936\'3f. The rates of fission and fusion in mitochondrial networks are balanced at steady state Shaw and Nunnari (2002). Mitochondrial tubules that are unable to meet this threshold are targeted for disposal via the autophagic machinery, a process known as mitophagy.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
During mitosis in mammalian somatic cells, mitochondrial morphology is coordinated with the cell cycle in order to ensure an even distribution of mitochondrial content to daughter cells. During the transition from G2 to M phase, the mitochondrial network changes to a highly fragmented state that is distributed evenly across the soma. This ensures that mitochondria will be evenly distributed to each of the daughter cells after mitosis. In yeast, mitochondria are transported to the bud via the actin cytoskeleton and the mitochondrial content in the bud is actively monitored Rafelski et\~al. (2012).}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
4  Pathological consequences of mitochondrial damage}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mitochondrial quality control primarily serves to protect the overall health of the network by mitigating accumulation of damaged components due to reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated during the OXPHOS process. ROS is generated from excess electrons at the complexes located in the ETC. While some endogenous levels of ROS is normal and plays a role in cell signaling Balaban et\~al. (2005) excessive ROS production can result in oxidative damage, alterations to the mtDNA, reduced \u916\'3f\u936\'3f as well as other cell dysfunction. Oxidative degradation of cellular proteins, lipids and DNA by ROS are theorized to be a driver of the aging process Harman (1956) and associated degenerative diseases Nunnari and Suomalainen (2012). It has been proposed that aged related diseases result from somatic accumulation of damaged mtDNA which are exposed to much higher levels of ROS due to its proximity to the respiratory complexes Wallace (2005). Studies in mice heterozygous for a mitochondrial matrix located antioxidant enzyme, MnSOD (superoxide dismutase) had lifelong reduced levels of these enzymes and showed increased oxidative damage to nuclear DNA and a four fold increase in tumor rates Remmen et\~al. (2003). These mice had reduced liver cell \u916\'3f\u936\'3f and respiration levels along with greatly increased levels of lipid peroxidation damage Kokoszka et\~al. (2001). The morphology of mitochondria exposed to oxidative stress tend to show a fragmented and swollen shape, and their ultrastructure display fewer numbers of cristae Jendrach et\~al. (2008).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Another clinically relevant example of how damaged mitochondria result in pathogenic signaling is in defects to the mitochondrial autophagy machinery. Mitochondria that accumulate excessive damage are normally targeted for autophagy by accumulation of the protein PINK1 on the outer membrane. PINK1 then recruits the cytosolic protein Parkin, which then induces a series of pathways that ultimately result in elimination of the damaged mitochondria by the autophagy machinery of the cell, a process also known as mitophagy. Mutations to PINK1 and Parkin have been shown to lead to neuronal and muscle cell degeneration, accumulation of defective mitochondria and early onset Parkinson\u8217\'92s disease Valente et\~al. (2004); Youle and Bliek (2012). Cells treated with a siRNA knockdown for in PINK1 also display an aberrant, fragmented morphology, and their cristae were much less numerous than in untreated cells Exner et\~al. (2007).}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mitochondria in mammals are exclusively inherited from the mother. Because of the lack of genetic recombination and high mutation rates from ROS exposure, mechanisms have evolved to limit the distribution of mtDNA with pathogenic mutations to offsprings. However when these control mechanisms fail, the offspring inherits a significant load of harmful mutations in their mtDNA and experience a host of diseases related to OXPHOS defects. These diseases, termed encephalomyopathies display a broad range of phenotypes that are most obvious in tissues with high metabolic needs such muscle, nerve and brain tissue. An example of a disease in this class is Leber\u8217\'92s hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), which is characterized by a loss of central vision Carelli et\~al. (2009).}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
5  Motivation and goal of thesis}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Remodeling of the mitochondrial network in response to metabolic changes entails changes to the structure of the mitochondria from the ultrastructure level (cristae), network level (connectivity between tubules) up to the cellular level. Morphological changes in dysfunctional mitochondria that are manifest in the pathologies mentioned previously (which is by no means complete) drives the need to have a \u8217\'92systems\u8217\'92 level understanding of the relationship between mitochondrial structure and function. However, an integrated, quantitative understanding of the mechanisms linking the changes of structure in response to functional state (and vice versa) is lacking in the field. Previous studies have provided detailed investigations at a specific level (for example detailed studies of the ultrastructure via electron microscopy, Vogel et\~al. (2006); Bornhovd et\~al. (2006)) without considering the context of changes at the macroscopic level (network and cell). Other studies have described qualitatively the phenotype of changes in mitochondrial morphology in response to alterations of growth conditions and mitochondrial fusion machinery Jakobs et\~al. (2003); Sesaki and Jensen (1999). At the cellular level past studies have shown an asymmetry of function between mother and daughter cells in budding yeast, without an analysis of the spatial distribution of this asymmetry Aguilaniu et\~al. (2003); Laun et\~al. (2001). A more fundamental requirement that was lacking until very recently is a method to characterize mitochondrial structure beyond visual inspection and qualitative assessment. While advances in this field has made it possible to analyze mitochondrial structure quantitatively Rafelski et\~al. (2012); Sukhorukov et\~al. (2012); Vowinckel et\~al. (2015), no study has been presented so far that investigates the relationship between function and network structure in an integrated and statistically validated manner.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\scaps0\caps0\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The goal of this thesis is to develop a multi-scale, quantitative investigation of the changes in structural features and functional states of yeast mitochondrial networks in response to changes to the metabolic state of the cell.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
6  Yeast as a model organism for studying structure-function relationship}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The metabolic states that we are interested in are those that minimize and maximize the contribution of OXPHOS derived respiration to the energetic needs of the cell. In this regard, the budding yeast }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Saccharomyces cerevisiae}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 model organism confers particular advantages with regards to the specificity and ease of manipulation of cellular respiration states in order to study changes to the mitochondrial network structure. By simply switching the carbon source of their growth media, one can either induce cells to undergo only fermentation (when grown in high glucose concentrations, which also represses mitochondrial growth), both fermentation and respiration (using a fermentable non repressing substrate) or maximal aerobic respiration (when grown in a non-fermentable substrate such as glycerol). In addition powerful genetic methods have been developed for the isolation of mutant strains lacking mitochondrial dynamics Sesaki and Jensen (1999); Kanki et\~al. (2009) and inheritance related machinery Itoh et\~al. (2002); Itoh et\~al. (2004). Lastly, mitochondria in yeast have networks that are much smaller compared to mammalian cells. However they still retain complex three-dimensional structures. This makes it much easier to segment, quantify and analyze the networks using the full power of network theory, allowing one to study the relationship between network structure and function quantitatively. }
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
7  Overview of thesis}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The following is a brief summary of the work done and results obtained in Chapters 2-6 of this thesis and how they are relevant towards meeting the goal of this thesis.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In Chapter 2, we detail a method to map a parameter for mitochondrial function (\u916\'3f\u936\'3f) to structure using a mitochondrial dye for \u916\'3f\u936\'3f and a fluorescent protein targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. The three dimensional spatial information containing functional, structural and other parameters are stored in a database that allows one to easily quantify and compare these parameters at different size scales, allowing one to have a truly integrated view of the structural and functional changes that occur in yeast mitochondrial networks in response to changes in respiration state. This database is subsequently used for the analysis done in Chapter 4, 5 and 6. We wanted to compare changes to structure of the mitochondrial network in response to metabolic need. In order to do this, in Chapter 3 we measured the oxygen consumption rate of cells growing in different carbon sources. Based on the literature and previous work we had some idea for the expected respiration rate and their corresponding \u916\'3f\u936\'3f level. Unexpectedly we found that the oxygen consumption rate and \u916\'3f\u936\'3f did not have a simple correlation for some of the carbon sources, therefore we concluded that mitochondrial respiration efficiency depended on which carbon source it was in. We also discussed why we would need a few additional parameters using a different instrument in order to confirm our reasoning. }
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Having developed the computational tools and a set of metabolic conditions to compare structure function changes, in Chapter 4 we proceeded to investigate the distribution of \u916\'3f\u936\'3f in a single mitochondrial tubule. We compared the distribution of real \u916\'3f\u936\'3f with randomly sampled \u916\'3f\u936\'3f in mitochondrial tubules to establish a baseline level of heterogeneity and concluded that the observed heterogeneity was real and non random. Furthermore we found that tubules in respiratory conditions correlated at smaller length scales and reasoned that it is most likely due to an increase in cristae density. We also found that tubules in respiratory conditions had an increased tubule thickness while having a lower variation of thickness along the length of the tubule. In Chapter 5, we analyzed the distribution of function (\u916\'3f\u936\'3f) within regions of the mitochondrial network. We found that connectivity of the mitochondrial network scaled with surface density, but function (\u916\'3f\u936\'3f) did not scale with connectivity. From these results we concluded that our assumption that the network connectivity could indicate regions of increased fusion activity (along with increased \u916\'3f\u936\'3f) was wrong, or at the very least our static data could not distinguish sites of higher fusion activity. Furthermore mitochondrial fragments that were isolated from the mitochondrial network proper did not show any difference in their \u916\'3f\u936\'3f levels. Again we concluded that we would need dynamic data or a mutant strain for mitophagy in order to obtain a conclusive result. In Chapter 6, we detail the development of a method to analyze the spatial distribution of \u916\'3f\u936\'3f between the mother and daughter cell of budding yeast based on the functional mapping pipeline developed in Chapter 2. We confirmed the functional asymmetry between mother and daughter (daughter cells have a higher \u916\'3f\u936\'3f level) found in previous studies as well as provide some intriguing results that show that this functional asymmetry is maintained throughout the entire cell division cycle. In fact we detected an increasing gradient of \u916\'3f\u936\'3f in the direction of the bud along the mother-daughter cellular axis. Lastly in Chapter 7 we conclude with the contributions and significance of this thesis and provide some future directions for extending the research work done.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s48\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\pagebb\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
References}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Michael Zick, Regina Rabl, and Andreas\~S. Reichert. Cristae formation\u8212\'97linking ultrastructure and function of mitochondria. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Molecular Cell Research}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 1793 (1): 5\u8211\'9619, January 2009. ISSN 0167-4889. 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2008.06.013.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
M.\~W. Gray, G.\~Burger, and B.\~F. Lang. Mitochondrial evolution. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Science (New York, N.Y.)}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 283 (5407): 1476\u8211\'961481, March 1999. ISSN 0036-8075.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Prashant Mishra and David\~C. Chan. Mitochondrial dynamics and inheritance during cell division, development and disease. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nature reviews. Molecular cell biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 15 (10): 634\u8211\'96646, October 2014. ISSN 1471-0072. 10.1038/nrm3877.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Carmen\~A. Mannella, Douglas\~R. Pfeiffer, Patrick\~C. Bradshaw, Ion\~I. Moraru, Boris Slepchenko, Leslie\~M. Loew, Chyong-ere Hsieh, Karolyn Buttle, and Michael Marko. Topology of the Mitochondrial Inner Membrane: Dynamics and Bioenergetic Implications. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
IUBMB Life}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 52 (3-5): 93\u8211\'96100, September 2001. ISSN 1521-6551. 10.1080/15216540152845885.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Joshua\~R. Veatch, Michael\~A. McMurray, Zara\~W. Nelson, and Daniel\~E. Gottschling. Mitochondrial dysfunction leads to nuclear genome instability: A link through iron-sulfur clusters. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cell}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 137 (7): 1247\u8211\'961258, June 2009. ISSN 0092-8674. 10.1016/j.cell.2009.04.014.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Christof Osman, Dennis\~R. Voelker, and Thomas Langer. Making heads or tails of phospholipids in mitochondria. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 192 (1): 7\u8211\'9616, January 2011. ISSN 0021-9525, 1540-8140. 10.1083/jcb.201006159.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Oliver Schmidt, Nikolaus Pfanner, and Chris Meisinger. Mitochondrial protein import: from proteomics to functional mechanisms. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 11 (9): 655\u8211\'96667, September 2010. ISSN 1471-0072. 10.1038/nrm2959.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Stephen W.\~G. Tait and Douglas\~R. Green. Mitochondria and cell death: outer membrane permeabilization and beyond. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 11 (9): 621\u8211\'96632, September 2010. ISSN 1471-0072. 10.1038/nrm2952.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
B.\~Chance and G.\~R. Williams. Respiratory enzymes in oxidative phosphorylation. I. Kinetics of oxygen utilization. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Biological Chemistry}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 217 (1): 383\u8211\'96393, November 1955. ISSN 0021-9258.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Peter Mitchell. Coupling of Phosphorylation to Electron and Hydrogen Transfer by a Chemi-Osmotic type of Mechanism. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nature}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 191 (4784): 144\u8211\'96148, July 1961. 10.1038/191144a0.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Giovanni Benard and Rodrigue Rossignol. Ultrastructure of the Mitochondrion and Its Bearing on Function and Bioenergetics. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Antioxidants & Redox Signaling}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 10 (8): 1313\u8211\'961342, August 2008. ISSN 1523-0864, 1557-7716. 10.1089/ars.2007.2000.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nils Wiedemann, Ann\~E. Frazier, and Nikolaus Pfanner. The Protein Import Machinery of Mitochondria. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Journal of Biological Chemistry}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 279 (15): 14473\u8211\'9614476, April 2004. ISSN 0021-9258, 1083-351X. 10.1074/jbc.R400003200.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Charles\~R. Hackenbrock. ULTRASTRUCTURAL BASES FOR METABOLICALLY LINKED MECHANICAL ACTIVITY IN MITOCHONDRIA. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 37 (2): 345\u8211\'96369, May 1968. ISSN 0021-9525.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
P.\~Bernardi and G.\~F. Azzone. Cytochrome c as an electron shuttle between the outer and inner mitochondrial membranes. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Biological Chemistry}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 256 (14): 7187\u8211\'967192, July 1981. ISSN 0021-9258.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
T.\~G Frey, C.\~W Renken, and G.\~A Perkins. Insight into mitochondrial structure and function from electron tomography. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Bioenergetics}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 1555 (1\u8211\'963): 196\u8211\'96203, September 2002. ISSN 0005-2728. 10.1016/S0005-2728(02)00278-5.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
A.\~A. Amchenkova, L.\~E. Bakeeva, Y.\~S. Chentsov, V.\~P. Skulachev, and D.\~B. Zorov. Coupling membranes as energy-transmitting cables. i.filamentous mitochondria in fibroblasts and mitochondrial clusters in cardiomyocytes. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 107 (2): 481\u8211\'96495, August 1988. ISSN 0021-9525.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Stefan Jakobs, Nadia Martini, Astrid\~C Schauss, Alexander Egner, Benedikt Westermann, and Stefan\~W Hell. Spatial and Temporal Dynamics of Budding Yeast Mitochondria Lacking the Division Component Fis1p. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Journal of Cell Science}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 116 (10): 2005\u8211\'962014, May 2003. ISSN 0021-9533, 1477-9137. 10.1242/jcs.00423.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
S.\~Meeusen, J.\~M McCaffery, and J.\~Nunnari. Mitochondrial fusion intermediates revealed in vitro. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Science}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 305 (5691): 1747\u8211\'961752, 2004.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Rodrigue Rossignol, Robert Gilkerson, Robert Aggeler, Kunihiro Yamagata, S.\~James Remington, and Roderick\~A. Capaldi. Energy Substrate Modulates Mitochondrial Structure and Oxidative Capacity in Cancer Cells. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cancer Research}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 64 (3): 985\u8211\'96993, February 2004. ISSN 0008-5472, 1538-7445. 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-03-1101.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Barbara Stevens. Mitochondrial structure. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cold Spring Harbor Monograph Archive; Volume 11A (1981): The Molecular Biology of the Yeast <em>Saccharomyces</em>: Life Cycle and Inheritance}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 1981. URL }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5
https://cshmonographs.org/index.php/monographs/article/view/4238}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Daniel Tondera, St|[eacute]|phanie Grandemange, Alexis Jourdain, Mariusz Karbowski, Yves Mattenberger, S|[eacute]|bastien Herzig, Sandrine\~Da Cruz, Pascaline Clerc, Ines Raschke, Carsten Merkwirth, and et\~al. SLP-2 is required for stress-induced mitochondrial hyperfusion. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The EMBO Journal}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 28 (11): 1589\u8211\'961600, April 2009. ISSN ERROR! NO ISSN. 10.1038/emboj.2009.89.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Gilad Twig, Brigham Hyde, and Orian\~S. Shirihai. Mitochondrial fusion, fission and autophagy as a quality control axis: The bioenergetic view. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Bioenergetics}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 1777 (9): 1092\u8211\'961097, September 2008. ISSN 0005-2728. 10.1016/j.bbabio.2008.05.001.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Janet\~M. Shaw and Jodi Nunnari. Mitochondrial dynamics and division in budding yeast. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Trends in cell biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 12 (4): 178\u8211\'96184, April 2002. ISSN 0962-8924.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Susanne\~M. Rafelski, Matheus\~P. Viana, Yi\~Zhang, Yee-Hung\~M. Chan, Kurt\~S. Thorn, Phoebe Yam, Jennifer\~C. Fung, Hao Li, Luciano da\~F. Costa, and Wallace\~F. Marshall. Mitochondrial Network Size Scaling in Budding Yeast. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Science}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 338 (6108): 822\u8211\'96824, November 2012. ISSN 0036-8075, 1095-9203. 10.1126/science.1225720.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Robert\~S. Balaban, Shino Nemoto, and Toren Finkel. Mitochondria, oxidants, and aging. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cell}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 120 (4): 483\u8211\'96495, February 2005. ISSN 0092-8674. 10.1016/j.cell.2005.02.001.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
D.\~Harman. Aging: a theory based on free radical and radiation chemistry. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Journal of Gerontology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 11 (3): 298\u8211\'96300, July 1956. ISSN 0022-1422.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Jodi Nunnari and Anu Suomalainen. Mitochondria: In Sickness and in Health. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Cell}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 148 (6): 1145\u8211\'961159, March 2012. ISSN 0092-8674. 10.1016/j.cell.2012.02.035.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Douglas\~C. Wallace. A Mitochondrial Paradigm of Metabolic and Degenerative Diseases, Aging, and Cancer: A Dawn for Evolutionary Medicine. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Annual review of genetics}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 39: 359, 2005. ISSN 0066-4197. 10.1146/annurev.genet.39.110304.095751.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Holly\~Van Remmen, Yuji Ikeno, Michelle Hamilton, Mohammad Pahlavani, Norman Wolf, Suzanne\~R. Thorpe, Nathan\~L. Alderson, John\~W. Baynes, Charles\~J. Epstein, Ting-Ting Huang, and et\~al. Life-long reduction in MnSOD activity results in increased DNA damage and higher incidence of cancer but does not accelerate aging. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Physiological Genomics}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 16 (1): 29\u8211\'9637, January 2003. ISSN 1094-8341, 1531-2267. 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00122.2003.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
J.\~E. Kokoszka, P.\~Coskun, L.\~A. Esposito, and D.\~C. Wallace. Increased mitochondrial oxidative stress in the Sod2 (+/-) mouse results in the age-related decline of mitochondrial function culminating in increased apoptosis. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 98 (5): 2278\u8211\'962283, February 2001. ISSN 0027-8424. 10.1073/pnas.051627098.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Marina Jendrach, Soren Mai, Sandra Pohl, Monika Voth, and Jurgen Bereiter-Hahn. Short and long-term alterations of mitochondrial morphology, dynamics and mtdna after transient oxidative stress. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mitochondrion}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 8 (4): 293\u8211\'96304, September 2008. ISSN 1567-7249. 10.1016/j.mito.2008.06.001.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Enza\~Maria Valente, Patrick\~M. Abou-Sleiman, Viviana Caputo, Miratul M.\~K. Muqit, Kirsten Harvey, Suzana Gispert, Zeeshan Ali, Domenico Del\~Turco, Anna\~Rita Bentivoglio, Daniel\~G. Healy, and et\~al. Hereditary early-onset Parkinson\u8217\'92s disease caused by mutations in PINK1. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Science (New York, N.Y.)}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 304 (5674): 1158\u8211\'961160, May 2004. ISSN 1095-9203. 10.1126/science.1096284.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Richard\~J. Youle and Alexander M. van\~der Bliek. Mitochondrial Fission, Fusion, and Stress. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Science}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 337 (6098): 1062\u8211\'961065, August 2012. ISSN 0036-8075, 1095-9203. 10.1126/science.1219855.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nicole Exner, Bettina Treske, Dominik Paquet, Kira Holmstrom, Carola Schiesling, Suzana Gispert, Iria Carballo-Carbajal, Daniela Berg, Hans-Hermann Hoepken, Thomas Gasser, and et\~al. Loss-of-function of human pink1 results in mitochondrial pathology and can be rescued by parkin. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Neuroscience}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 27 (45): 12413\u8211\'9612418, November 2007. ISSN 0270-6474, 1529-2401. 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0719-07.2007.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Valerio Carelli, Chiara La\~Morgia, Maria\~Lucia Valentino, Piero Barboni, Fred\~N. Ross-Cisneros, and Alfredo\~A. Sadun. Retinal ganglion cell neurodegeneration in mitochondrial inherited disorders. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 1787 (5): 518\u8211\'96528, May 2009. ISSN 0006-3002. 10.1016/j.bbabio.2009.02.024.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Frank Vogel, Carsten Bornhovd, Walter Neupert, and Andreas\~S. Reichert. Dynamic subcompartmentalization of the mitochondrial inner membrane. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 175 (2): 237\u8211\'96247, October 2006. ISSN 0021-9525, 1540-8140. 10.1083/jcb.200605138.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Carsten Bornhovd, Frank Vogel, Walter Neupert, and Andreas\~S. Reichert. Mitochondrial membrane potential is dependent on the oligomeric state of f1f0-atp synthase supracomplexes. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Journal of Biological Chemistry}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 281 (20): 13990\u8211\'9613998, May 2006. ISSN 0021-9258, 1083-351X. 10.1074/jbc.M512334200.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
H\~Sesaki and R\~E Jensen. Division versus fusion: Dnm1p and Fzo1p antagonistically regulate mitochondrial shape. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Journal of Cell Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 147 (4): 699\u8211\'96706, November 1999. ISSN 0021-9525.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hugo Aguilaniu, Lena Gustafsson, Michel Rigoulet, and Thomas Nystrom. Asymmetric inheritance of oxidatively damaged proteins during cytokinesis. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Science}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 299 (5613): 1751\u8211\'961753, March 2003. ISSN 0036-8075, 1095-9203. 10.1126/science.1080418.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Peter Laun, Alena Pichova, Frank Madeo, Jorg Fuchs, Adolf Ellinger, Sepp Kohlwein, Ian Dawes, Kai-Uwe Frohlich, and Michael Breitenbach. Aged mother cells of saccharomyces cerevisiae show markers of oxidative stress and apoptosis. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Molecular Microbiology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 39 (5): 1166\u8211\'961173, March 2001. ISSN 1365-2958. 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2001.02317.x.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Valerii\~M. Sukhorukov, Daniel Dikov, Andreas\~S. Reichert, and Michael Meyer-Hermann. Emergence of the Mitochondrial Reticulum from Fission and Fusion Dynamics. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
PLoS Computational Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 8 (10), October 2012. ISSN 1553-734X. 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002745. URL }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\loch\f5
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3486901/}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Jakob Vowinckel, Johannes Hartl, Richard Butler, and Markus Ralser. MitoLoc: A method for the simultaneous quantification of mitochondrial network morphology and membrane potential in single cells. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mitochondrion}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 24: 77\u8211\'9686, September 2015. ISSN 1567-7249. 10.1016/j.mito.2015.07.001.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tomotake Kanki, Ke\~Wang, Yang Cao, Misuzu Baba, and Daniel\~J. Klionsky. Atg32 is a mitochondrial protein that confers selectivity during mitophagy. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Developmental cell}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 17 (1): 98\u8211\'96109, July 2009. ISSN 1534-5807. 10.1016/j.devcel.2009.06.014.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Takashi Itoh, Akiko Watabe, Akio Toh-E, and Yasushi Matsui. Complex formation with Ypt11p, a rab-type small GTPase, is essential to facilitate the function of Myo2p, a class V myosin, in mitochondrial distribution in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Molecular and Cellular Biology}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 22 (22): 7744\u8211\'967757, November 2002. ISSN 0270-7306.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Takashi Itoh, Akio Toh-E, and Yasushi Matsui. Mmr1p is a mitochondrial factor for Myo2p-dependent inheritance of mitochondria in the budding yeast. }{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The EMBO journal}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, 23 (13): 2520\u8211\'962530, July 2004. ISSN 0261-4189. 10.1038/sj.emboj.7600271.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[figure]list=no [table]list=no}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\pagebb\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\b\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs40
Appendix A}
\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs40\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Appendix Title}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Supplementary material goes here. See for instance Figure }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
{\field{\*\fldinst  REF BMfig_quote \\h }{\fldrslt 1}}}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\b\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs32\sl360\slmult1\ql\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\keepn{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
A  Lorem Ipsum}
\par \pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\qj\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.}
\par \pard\plain \s39\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20\sl360\slmult1\qc\keep\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24

\par \pard\plain \s39\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20\sl360\slmult1\qc\keep\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24

\par \trowd\trql\trleft0\ltrrow\trpaddft3\trpaddt0\trpaddfl3\trpaddl0\trpaddfb3\trpaddb0\trpaddfr3\trpaddr0\cellx9400\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\intbl\sl360\slmult1\ql\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\fs24
\u8220\'93}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24
I am glad I was up so late,}\cell\row\pard\trowd\trql\trleft0\ltrrow\trpaddft3\trpaddt0\trpaddfl3\trpaddl0\trpaddfb3\trpaddb0\trpaddfr3\trpaddr0\cellx9400\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\intbl\sl360\slmult1\ql\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\fs24
    }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24
for that\u8217\'92s the reason I was up so early.\u8221\'94}\cell\row\pard\trowd\trql\trleft0\ltrrow\trpaddft3\trpaddt0\trpaddfl3\trpaddl0\trpaddfb3\trpaddb0\trpaddfr3\trpaddr0\cellx9400\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\intbl\sl360\slmult1\ql\sb86\sa0{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs19
William Shakespeare (1564-1616), British dramatist, poet.}\cell\row\pard\trowd\trql\trleft0\ltrrow\trpaddft3\trpaddt0\trpaddfl3\trpaddl0\trpaddfb3\trpaddb0\trpaddfr3\trpaddr0\cellx9400\pard\plain \s0\qj\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\cf0\kerning1\langfe2052\alang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\intbl\sl360\slmult1\ql\sb86\sa0{\i\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs19
Cloten, in Cymbeline, act 2, sc. 3, l. 33-4.}\cell\row\pard\pard\plain \s39\qc\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa0\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs20\sl360\slmult1\qc\keep\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi360\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\fs24
 }
\par \pard\plain \s38\ql\keep\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\dbch\af7\dbch\af9\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\sl360\slmult1\ql\keep\widctlpar\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\sb86\sa0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Figure }{{\*\bkmkstart BMfig_quote}\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1}{{\*\bkmkend BMfig_quote}\rtlch \ltrch\loch
: A deep quote.}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }